so what's your question of inner thank
you for taking it so lightly I'm gonna
be arrested so why don't you ask me the
question okay it's a little difficult
good can I wait one minute please
okay thank you for taking my question
Jerry welcome I'm here today to express
my concerns on the public school teacher
and I've heard you talking a lot about
numbers and figures and the charts
please hear my story because I I feel I
represent thousands of others of state
workers particularly teachers I've been
a teacher for 27 years I never went into
it for the money never wanted never
expect it to be rich
I love teaching I still do and I'm
blessed when I started teaching in 1985
I started at $12,000 where my friends
who went to college as well and went
into the corporate world they started at
5060 thousand and laughed at me how
could you take a job with that I didn't
think anything of it because again I
didn't I never expected or wanted to be
rich it doesn't mean anything to me
I make a difference every day in the
kids lives I won Teacher of the Year
five years ago and I think I'm good that
being said governor I have worked and I
started a $12,000 then it went up to
eighteen five counting on those benefits
the pension when I retired and I really
feel that you are favoring the affluent
really yes I do
so I do how I feel with the the
corporate tax benefits that you're
giving to corporations the Exxon I'd
like you to please address that that
Exxon deal yeah I you don't talk about
that I don't I know that you could have
gotten more money on the dollar you do I
know I really did you know that governor
I do you know that I want to know how
you know that because you're a teacher
yes and you're standing in front of
students every day conveying to them
facts yeah things that they need to
learn so I'd like to understand you're
in
analysis of how you know that in a
10-year long court case that you have
enough detail to know can you believe it
like morning well no because I'd like to
know what you know because you started
off by saying I know you could have
gotten more money and so that's what is
rare change that but then you could you
enlighten me then I'm not here to be
bullied I'm not a bully
by the way you're not being bullied
because you're asking me questions I get
to ask you questions back if you're
going to make an assertion if you're
gonna make an assertion of fact as a
teacher mm-hmm who people in the
community respect as a truth teller then
I'd like to know where you get your
information to say to this entire group
I know you could have gotten more money
from my reading if I'm wrong of what if
I'm governor could you please enlighten
me well I will but once you finish your
question I'll light you on all of it
okay I have read in the newspaper that
you could have gotten more from Exxon
and therefore perhaps that could have
gone to the pension or or perhaps you
did address taxing the millionaires a
little bit more what about was there a
cost to for the Pearson testing did that
cost a lot in other words in other words
what I'm saying is in my mind it's a
matter of priorities and I do feel that
to a certain extent you are throwing
state workers under the bus really yes I
do feel that by the way I've made as you
heard 4.2 billion dollars in payments to
the pension system in the last five
years when the previous five governors
over 15 years made three point four
billion dollars in payments 800 million
dollars less in 15 years than I've made
in five I made reforms to the pension
system in 2011 which if we had not done
that the pension system would be
significantly compromised
today lastly you're talking about
needing another three billion dollars
three billion dollars a year every year
to pay for the benefits that you're
saying you want to receive now your
salary started at $12,000 it went to
eight
thousand dollars and I'm sure it's not
eighteen thousand dollars today only
twenty-seven years now what has happened
over the course of time in New Jersey is
that teacher salaries have gone up
significantly markedly from where they
were in the mid 80s in fact in the mid
80s
teachers were very poorly paid in New
Jersey because of senator Kane's father
in 1985 he gave a significant increase
to teacher payments during that period
of time and now because local school
boards have negotiated that up until the
time that the cap was put into effect
four years ago teacher salaries were
going up at a significantly higher level
than inflation in New Jersey over the
course of the last twenty years and so
the circumstances are not nearly the
same as they were in 1985 fact is your
Union over the course of time has asked
for significantly higher benefits more
expensive benefits that your union knew
the state could not afford and that
local school districts could not afford
property taxes went up seventy percent
in the last ten years largely on the
back of increased education spending
since at least two-thirds of every
property tax bill if not more goes to
paying of the public schools that's on
top of the twelve billion dollars this
year that the state is giving directly
back to school districts to pay for
public school true but several years ago
governor you did cut too no no in fact
today we pay more today and in four out
of the five years of my governorship we
have increased aid to the public school
system in four out of the five years and
the one year went down was because
federal funding of 1 billion dollars was
eliminated because President Obama did
not renew the stimulus plan that spent a
billion dollars in New Jersey in one
year not state money federal money that
was a one-shot non-recurring revenue
that came from the federal government in
2009 so we have not reduced spending on
public schools in fact we've increased
the amount of state money that's spent
in public schools every year every year
in fact we pay seventeen thousand seven
hundred dollars per pupil per year in
New Jersey that is the highest per pupil
rate of pay of any state in America so
it does not add up I know you don't want
to talk about the numbers
but the numbers don't add up in fact if
we do what we need to do here your
pension will be protected but you can't
have Platinum Plus health benefits
anymore
can't have them when I became governor
teachers in the state paid nothing
towards their health insurance zero
towards their health insurance there's
not a class of employees in this state
who pay nothing towards their health
insurance the fact is this system needs
to be rejiggered because it is
unaffordable and you cannot have
Platinum Plus benefits so I understand
what you believe you're entitled to it's
not an entitlement
I didn't title meal we've earned it how
big you a a fraction of the money for
the benefits you're going to get you
will take out in pension hundreds of
thousands of dollars more than you put
in in health benefits you get $26,000 a
year subsidy on your health benefits a
$26,000 a year subsidy every year by the
way through through death not just while
you're working but through death it is
it's the numbers simply don't add up I
would love to be able to stay in here
till you know what
no problem we'll pay for all of it now
as to the Exxon case what you may not
understand is that the Exxon case is
going to get a lot more than 225 million
dollars Exxon has to pay for the cleanup
in Lindon and in the other refinery in
Rahway without any restriction on the
amount of cost them it has to be cleaned
up back to the condition that's
acceptable by the DEP and whatever that
costs Exxon they have to pay it on top
of that they're paying another 225
million dollars so no one knows at this
point exactly how much it's going to
cost but it's going to cost
significantly more than 225 million
dollars and in fact the DEP Commissioner
who started this suit back then said the
whole thing should only be a few hundred
million dollars we're two hundred and
twenty five million dollars for the
trouble of having sued them plus cleanup
plus cleanup so you know the fact is
that none of that by the way none of
that
helped to solve the pension problem
because even if I got double that from
Exxon I got 450 million so now we could
take 225 million to put it towards a
pension we need three billion dollars a
year
additional every year every year for as
long as the eye can see
okay okay so and what you're saying and
I and I don't want to take up any more
time but we do have to consider the fact
that four years
teachers were initially receiving the
lower salaries right four years because
of the pension because the payout would
be at the end and you're going by the
way charts they 127 years you're going
to receive your pension the only way you
won't is if we don't make these changes
notice that the changes I talked about
don't reduce your pension one time they
don't reduce your payout one dime you
freeze it for new members and new
members don't get in what you lose is
you go from Platinum plus benefits to
gold benefits that's what you lose now
to be quite candid I don't think there's
anybody in this society given what it
costs who deserves Platinum Plus health
benefits
it just is unaffordable to pay thirty
one thousand dollars a year every year
for health benefits and twenty six
thousand of that being subsidized by the
taxpayers and by the way before I got
here all thirty one thousand was
subsidized by the taxpayers teachers
made no contribution to their health
insurance so fact is anyone would look
at the all in deal you're getting a
twenty six thousand dollar subsidy on
your health insurance from the day you
start till the day you die every year
and you're getting a defined benefit
pension that is thirteen thousand
dollars higher than what the national
average is for teachers so add that on
top of it now we're talking about a
nearly forty thousand dollar subsidy
every year that the taxpayers of New
Jersey are giving the teachers that is
in addition to your salary in addition
to your salary and that stays through
the entire time until you
pass away I understand that so you know
at some point at some point these folks
can't afford to pay that anymore they
simply can't I'm a taxpayer too I
understand but what you pay in taxes is
a fraction a fraction as one person
towards what's being contributed to what
you're getting and so I didn't come out
here and say you shouldn't get what
you're getting and under the plan that I
put forward you're going to get exactly
what you're been promised but let me
tell you how you won't want to stand up
and fight this and say no governor you
should just pay it it's not possible for
it to be paid there are not enough taxes
in this state to be raised there are not
enough exon settlements to be made to be
able to pay an extra three billion
dollars a year every year for as far as
the eye can see so here's what will
happen at nine billion dollars a year
payout with eighty billion dollars a
year in the fund do the math it will not
be long until the pension system will be
broke and then when it's broke like it
was in Detroit so this is not a
theoretical argument this happened it
happened not only in Detroit but in a
couple of smaller municipalities too
fact is when it goes broke then there's
no place else to go and so your choice
is do you want to have the type of
reform that's going to be necessary to
secure your retirement future or do you
want to roll the dice so you roll the
dice listen it's going to happen long
after I'm gone so it's gonna happen when
someone else's watch and the easiest
thing in the world for me to be to do
would be just say hey I'll make whatever
payments I can make you guys keep doing
what you're doing and best of luck but
the fact is that it is not sustainable
it is not sustainable when combined with
the salaries that have been increased
over the course of time and with the
taxes that have been raised over the
course of time to support those salaries
it's unsustainable and anybody who comes
into a room like this and tells you
anything different is just as guilty as
all the governors who came before me who
made these promises and had no pathway
to pay for them I said this to the
firefighters when I met with them five
years ago and they booed me because I
wanted pension reform
I said you know I don't get it why you
booing the first guy to tell you the
truth you think I want to come in this
room and give anything but good news I'm
in politics I'd love to give nothing but
good news not but I can't I simply can
these charts the numbers are the numbers
they don't lie this is what they are and
you could wish it away but wishing the
way ain't going to be the solution to
this problem and when it goes broke and
you have no pension and no health
benefits that's going to be a really sad
and sorry day and an irresponsible day
for not only the leaders of this state
but for the leaders of your Union
because they're supposed to be there to
protect you to a part of protecting you
is telling you the truth
and the truth is they know this isn't
affordable either they know it's not
can't be afforded thank you